[Music]
in 1912 Titanic sailed the ocean to
delve into something Hey look
not many relevant words rhyme with 12
okay but it's true the Titanic's only
voyage ended in tragedy on April 15 1912
at the time of the disaster it was the
largest and most advanced ship ever
constructed and that got me wondering
about something with over a century of
advancement how our today's cruise ships
different from those of Titanic's day
sure we all know they're now required to
carry more lifeboats but that isn't
exactly what makes them the life of the
party let's start with the size everyone
knows that the Titanic was the largest
ship of its time but how big was it
exactly the Titanic stretch 882 feet
from bow to stern and had a beam or
width of 92 feet the ship's nine decks
rose to an impressive 175 feet making it
about the height of an 11-story building
designed to carry more than 2,400
passengers and almost 900 crew members
the Titanic had certainly earned its
name even had it managed to avoid the
iceberg the Titanic wouldn't have held
on to its title for very long the SS
Imperator would steal its crown a year
later when it undertook his maiden
voyage in 1913 that's right his even
though most ships are referred to with
female pronouns kaiser wilhelm ii
specifically requested the ship be
considered a male it's not entirely
clear why but one possibility might be
grammar since Imperator meaning Emperor
is an exclusively male title in German
as the decades passed ships only got
bigger and bigger as countries and
companies competed for the crown as of
2019 the largest cruise ship in the
world is the symphony of the Seas which
is operated by Royal Caribbean the
symphony Dwarfs Titanic in every way
eleven hundred eighty four feet across
and 215 feet wide
her 18 decks are double the Titanic site
and provides spacious accommodations for
well over 5,000 passengers and since
we're on the subject of accommodations
it might be time to talk about the
different purposes these two ships were
created for the symphony of the Seas is
a cruise ship not an ocean liner like
the Titanic and Imperator think of it as
the difference between a city bus and a
tour bus you board a cruise ship to have
fun and an ocean liner when you need to
get somewhere ocean liners fill the same
raw Air Lines performed today as with
Airlines the quality of the journey was
heavily dependent on the amount of money
passengers were willing to spend
first-class passengers would enjoy a
saltwater pool spa gymnasium and
multiple restaurants decorated in the
styles of French cafes and swanky New
York hotels
bulaga first class cabins were large and
well furnished containing multiple rooms
such as lounges and private studies
second class rooms were smaller and not
as glamorous but luxuriously furnished
and the passenger still had access to a
number of the ship's amenities the
people staying in these rooms were
mostly upper middle class professionals
and their tickets cost the equivalent of
eighteen hundred dollars in today's
money third-class also known as steerage
wasn't quite so luxurious
although the accommodations were still
nicer than on many ships of the same era
each small room featured four bumps and
the third-class passengers had access to
communal bathrooms and dining areas most
ships of the era didn't even provide
steering passengers with running water
or electricity Titanic was also one of
only a few ships that provide steerage
passengers with food and allowed them
access to the outdoor decks Titanic's
cramped bunk rooms might not be the lap
of luxury but we're far better than a
moldy cot in the ship's whole modern
cruise ships don't really have classes
in the way as the Titanic or even modern
airlines people go on cruises for fun
instead of transportation so
it wouldn't do to cram their passengers
into bunk beds even the least expensive
room on a cruise ship is still going to
be about the level of a modest hotel
room instead of rigid classes many
modern cruise lines divvy up their rooms
based on size and location with interior
rooms being the least expensive and
large balcony equipped Suites on the
other end of the spectrum some suites
are multiple floors and many include
private cinemas and game rooms Symphony
of the Seas ultimate family suite even
comes equipped with a tube slide for the
kids not that grownups can't use the
slide I mean who doesn't like orange
plastic
in addition to TVs and in-room slides
there are many other amenities found on
modern cruise ships that wouldn't have
been available in the early 20th century
the Titanic may have had its own pool
but many modern cruise ships feature
their own miniature water parks complete
with attractions such as slides and wave
pools other features may include things
like golf courses performance venues and
complimentary childcare deluxe tickets
may still come with exclusive perks not
available to everyone
and some restaurants and shows will cost
extra
but unlike aboard the Titanic most
amenities are open to all passengers now
ships didn't go from coal power steamers
to towering oceanic resorts overnight
shipbuilding had to come a long way
before these immense mobile vacation
spots became a reality the Titanic was
constructed in Belfast harbour on a
special slipway built specifically to
accommodate its unprecedented bulk above
the drydock was a massive steel
structure known as the Aral gantry this
220 five foot tall gantry utilized
numerous cranes for lifting the large
plates into a position where they then
could be riveted into place many folks
don't realize that there were special
green frogs up on the gantry whose
purpose was to inspire the workers to
rivet rivet in half I made that part up
could you tell the hull of the Titanic
was made up of thousands of these
overlapping plates with a lower hull
consisting of two layers
this was done to protect the Titanic
from damage caused by scraping against
the seabed unfortunately the damage from
the iceberg was just below the waterline
where there was only one layer of
plating between the ocean and the ship's
interior Titanic's primary safety
feature was the 16 watertight
compartments making up the lower decks
the ship was designed to stay afloat
with four of these compartments
completely flooded again unfortunately
the iceberg opened a long gash across
five of them the chambers also fail to
extend all the way to the top of the
hull
once the water reached the top of the
five breech compartments they quickly
overflowed and spilled into the others
dragging the ship down at an even
greater speed ships of today are still
made of steel but advancements in
smelting and metallurgy have resulted in
hulls stronger and less brittle than
were possible a hundred years ago
aluminium is also widely used to reduce
the ship's weight this allows the
vessels to achieve their towering height
while still maintaining a low center of
gravity thanks to the heavy engines and
fuel tanks at the bottom of the hall the
reduced weight also means lower
emissions speaking of the engines modern
cruise ships run primarily on either
diesel natural gas or some combination
of the two the vessels that use both
often employ diesel engines for
propulsion and natural gas to drive the
motors that produce electricity this is
a far cry from ships of the Titanic's
era which use coal furnaces to boil the
water powering its steam engines modern
ships may not be emission free but it's
a lot better than belching clouds of ash
and smoke construction techniques have
also changed over the years although
that's no surprise considering how
radically the ships themselves have
transformed instead of only having a few
large internal compartments the internal
structure of modern cruise ships is a
vast network of Steel webs radiating
inward from the hall with every fourth
web supporting a massive wall of steel
the girders are concealed within the
walls of the ship and serve as the
vessels
I'm Airi load-bearing structure however
the most unusual aspect of modern cruise
construction is that they're not built
hull the funnel as a single construction
instead the hull and cabins are built as
separate modules then assembled in the
drydock have you ever seen those giant
crane shaped a bit like a boxy lowercase
n those are called Goliath cranes and
now you know what they're for in
addition to the ship being assembled
like a giant Lego set the larger hull
pieces are constructed upside-down this
is because the hulls tapered shape makes
it easier to weld the plates together
from the top down this might all sound
monstrously complex but the modular
design means that cruise ships can be
constructed much more quickly than a
building of the same size the trade-off
is that not every port comes equipped
for such a massive undertaking the
largest cruise ships and oil tankers are
assembled in just six locations
worldwide the most prolific being the
Hyundai Heavy Industries shipyard in
South Korea so are you ready to sail the
high seas in some of these
state-of-the-art vessels why don't you
let me know down below hey if you
learned something new today then give
the video a like and share it with a
friend and here are some other videos I
think you'll enjoy just click to the
left or right and remember stay on the
bright side of life